.\" ** You probably do not want to edit this file directly **
.\" It was generated using the DocBook XSL Stylesheets (version 1.69.1).
.\" Instead of manually editing it, you probably should edit the DocBook XML
.\" source for it and then use the DocBook XSL Stylesheets to regenerate it.
.TH "WIIPRESENT" "1" "08/20/2009" "" ""
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
wiipresent \- tool to control applications using a Nintendo wiimote
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
wiipresent [options]\&...
.sp
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
wiipresent is a tool to control applications using the wiimote. It was originally developed for using the wiimote to give presentations using openoffice or xpdf, but is now turned into a tool to control your mouse and/or other applications.
.sp
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\-b bt\-address, \-\-bluetooth=bt\-address
Wiimote bluetooth addresses (use hcitool scan to find yours)
.TP
\-d name, \-\-display=name
X display to use
.TP
\-i, \-\-infrared
use infrared sensor to move mouse pointer
.TP
\-l length, \-\-length=minutes
presentation length in minutes
.TP
\-r, \-\-reconnect
on disconnect, wait for reconnect
.TP
\-t, \-\-tilt
use tilt sensors to move mouse pointer
.TP
\-h, \-\-help
display this help and exit
.TP
\-v, \-\-verbose
increase verbosity
.TP
\-\-version
output version information and exit
.SH "USAGE"
You can simply start wiipresent and it will scan for nearby wiimotes.
.sp
In case you want to force a specific wiimote, you need to know the bluetooth address of the wiimote you want to use. You can scan your bluetooth viscinity by using hcitool like:
.sp
.sp
.nf
hcitool scan
.fi
after having pressed the 1 and 2 keys on your wiimote once. You will then see something like:
.sp
.sp
.nf
[root@moria ~]# hcitool scan
Scanning ...
00:21:64:EF:62:F5       Nokia E71
00:1B:7A:F8:B5:64       Nintendo RVL\-CNT\-01
.fi
Then start wiipresent using the following syntax:
.sp
.sp
.nf
[dag@moria ~]# wiipresent \-b 00:1B:7A:F8:B5:64
Please press 1+2 on the wiimote with address 00:1B:7A:F8:B5:64...
Battery level now is 81%.
.fi
You can also provide more than one bluetooth address if you have more than one wiimote and it will then limit itself to one from the list.
.sp
.SH "KEY MAPPINGS"
When you press a button on your Nintendo Wiimote, WiiPresent sends a Key event to the application that has the focus. Depending on the application, the buttons have a different meaning even though there is some consistency to what happens.
.sp
Currently the key mappings for each application is hard\-coded in the wiipresent tool, but in the future we plan to make this dynamically configurable so you have more control over the behaviour of your wiimote for your favorite applications.
.sp
Since we have a limited number of buttons on a Ninendo Wiimote we are limited in functionality we can map to the application, however to overcome this limitation combinations of keys have a special meaning.
.sp
When you press any button, you are using NORMAL mode. If you keep the B button pressed together with other buttons, you are in WINDOW mode. If you press button B and button A together you toggle between MOUSE mode and NORMAL mode.
.sp
.SH "NORMAL MODE"
The following keys are mapped in NORMAL mode, depending on the application that has the focus this may vary.
.sp
.TP
Left/Right buttons
change slide, change channel, change tab
.TP
Up/Down buttons
change volume, change links
.TP
\fI\-\fR/\fI+\fR buttons
change volume, zoom out/in
.TP
\fIA\fR button
toggle play/pause, change source
.TP
\fI1\fR button
toggle fullscreen
.TP
\fI2\fR button
change aspect ratio
.TP
\fIhome\fR button
go back, home key
.TP
\fIexit\fR button
exit wiipresent (not implemented yet due to libwiimote bug)
.SH "WINDOW MODE"
The following keys are mapped in WINDOW mode, depending on the application that has the focus this may vary. \fBThe B button is pressed together with the buttons below.\fR
.sp
.TP
Up/Down buttons
scroll up/down, page up/down
.TP
Left/Right buttons
switch between applications (window manager)
.TP
\fI\-\fR/\fI+\fR buttons
change workspace
.TP
\fIA\fR button
toggle MOUSE mode
.TP
\fI2\fR button
blank screen, mute audio (censor info)
.SH "MOUSE MODE"
The following keys are mapped in MOUSE mode, depending on the application that has the focus this may vary. \fBMOUSE mode is toggled by pressing the \fR\fB\fIA\fR\fR\fB button and \fR\fB\fIB\fR\fR\fB button at the same time.\fR
.sp
.TP
Up/Down buttons
scroll up/down
.TP
Left/Right buttons
switch between applications
.TP
\fI\-\fR/\fI+\fR buttons
left/right mouse buttons
.TP
\fIA\fR button
leave mouse button
.SH "BUGS"
This program is free of bugs. Yeah right.
.sp
If you have improvements or bugreports, please send them to: [1]\&\fIdag@wieers.com\fR
.sp
.sp
.it 1 an-trap
.nr an-no-space-flag 1
.nr an-break-flag 1
.br
\fBNote\fR
Please see the TODO file for known bugs and future plans.
.sp
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.sp
.nf
hcitool(1)
.fi
.SH "HISTORY"
The idea of using the wiimote for giving presentations was devised at LinuxTag 2008 in Berlin and a basic hack (based on WMD) was showcased at LinuxTag the second day at the CentOS booth. It included infrared mouse support and was written by Dag Wieers.
.sp
Because we need deadlines for getting anything done, we instantly submitted a paper for FrOSCon 2008 that was selected. And a second hack written in C (using cwiid) implemented tilt mouse support and timely rumbles was showcased at FrOSCon and was written by Geerd\-Dietger Hoffman.
.sp
At FOSDEM 2009 the current version was written from scratch at the CentOS booth (in C using libwiimote) and demonstrated before a live audience. Nobody (that we know of) was injured during this demonstration.
.sp
.SH "AUTHOR"
Written by Dag Wieers [1]\&\fIdag@wieers.com\fR
.sp
Homepage at [2]\&\fIhttp://dag.wieers.com/home\-made/wiipresent/\fR
.sp
.SH "REFERENCES"
.TP 3
1.\ dag@wieers.com
\%mailto:dag@wieers.com
.TP 3
2.\ http://dag.wieers.com/home\-made/wiipresent/
\%http://dag.wieers.com/home\-made/wiipresent/
